# ASSESSMENT 4: Interview Practice Questions
Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.  

1. What are props in React?

  Your answer: Props is short for properties. this is used as from parent to child components. meaning to pass from one component to another. Props are both used with and without destructuring. Props is for
  
  Researched answer: Javascript library for building user interface free and open source. Use is for state management and rendering the state of the DOM structure in mobile applications or even server rendering. React is in entities called components that are React code. this is declarative programming. Class based components, virtual DOM, lifecycle methods, JSX, React hooks are noteworthy features of React.



2. What is a DOM event? 
  
  Your answer: DOM stands for document object model DOM events are used in conjuntion with functions. Event occurs then the function happens.
  for example "click" this happens when the user clicks on a certain element.

  Researched answer: DOM events are generated by element nodes and HTML events like click, dblclick, mousedown, mouseup are examples of DOM events. Elements are inside the node of DOM trees and are triggered by user interaction to the browser.



3. What is object-oriented programming? How is it different than functional programming?

  Your answer: The difference between object-oriented programming and functional programming is that in functional programming the focus is on logic and functions. Object-oriented programming is more about objects data modeling. once labeled with a class uses are for data manipulation.

  Researched answer: Object oriented programming based on objects. These object attributes have code then formulate a method for the procedure. "This" refers to the current oject. Function in comparison uses functions. the logic of highorder function is an example of usage.



4. What is the difference between a Float and an Integer in Ruby?

  Your answer: A float is a decimal and an integer is no decimal point.

  Researched answer: Integer class is a class that holds whole numbers and is a subclass of numeric class. Methods that are defined under integer class would be integer?, next, times, upto. Any number that is not a decimal point will be treated as an integer. Floats contain decimal points in Ruby and is also a subclass in numeric class.


5. Ruby has an implicit return. What does that mean?

  Your answer: The return is implied without the function.

  Researched answer: The return is implied without the function and must be used in a concise body. the opposite explicit uses a return key.



## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

1. Instance Variable: Is a variable defined in a class. And is a type of class attribute. The instance variable is declared but outside of constructors method blocks in the class. When an object is instantiated instance variables are created. this holds the value that must be reference by more than one method by beind a variable that occurs every instance within their data associations between these models.

2. PostgreSQL: RDBMS relational database management system. is a free and open source relational database management system that  provides  uses of the ACID properties to guarantee data validity  to check the accuracy of the data. this database is default for mac os but available for other systems like windows. For storage and replication, indexes,schemas, datatypes, user defined, inheritance, and storage functional programming. Microsoft Sony online, instagram are some popular users.

3. Ruby on Rails: Used to build apps and follows the mvc architect and is a server side web application framework. Sets web standards with a user interface for JSON, HTML, CSS, Javascript web standards. technical overview for MVC, HTTp servers, web services, CSS, template, Ruby versions, framework, and deployment. Has a scalability and security for large sites like Airbnb, github, or like shopify. Ruby on Rails adopts new features in replace for new techniqes.

4. ORM: Object relational map is used for object oriented programming and is a virtual object database used within the program language specifically for object oriented values. This programming technique converts data between type systems using OOP yeah you know me. Data management tasks act on objects and are non-scaler.

5. Active Record: Is and approach to accessing data in a database. Active record is the model portion in the MVC model.It is the system responsible for representing business data and logic. Active record as an ORM framework give several mechanisms representing models and facilitates the use of business objects and their data associations between the models.
